# mid-level-web-dev

```
A mid-level can just crack on with stuff

-- me
```

## Intro

This resource is primarily a learning and self assessment tool for
junior web developers to have a list of skills/tasks to have under
their belt, in order to push for a mid level developer role.

This project has a list of tasks that one can tick off, though some
are a little abstract, so I have also tried to include a list of small
projects that reference the tasks they cover. As per the point above,
the focus at this entry level, is to simply complete the task. Writing
maintainable, testable and ultimately 'clean' code is an ongoing
pursuit as one progresses to senior and beyond.

## Philosophy

This is a highly opinionated collection of tasks a mid level developer
should be able to do. It's not an exhaustive list, and of course many
will feel some elements probe too deep in the wrong direction, or some
areas are left completely unchallenged. Feel free to raise an issue with
suggestions and opinions!

Developers are the bulk of the workforce; juniors are still learning
the ropes, and seniors are spread between mentoring, planning and
resolving complex issues within their field. To this end, a developer
should just be able to get work done, no matter the task - this isn't
to say they 'know' everything, but rather, they have encountered
enough issues across a range of problem areas. They need to know where
to start looking, what to start googling, and potentially, who to
start asking for subject matter expertise within their company.

Some tasks put an emphasis on completing a task from memory - this is
simply a means to an end; I see this resource primarily as a learning
tool, so one should repeat certain tasks enough until the appropriate
skill is internalised, creating a firm foundation for further skills
to build upon.

To my mind a developer who is someone that can make something work,
and their journey towards senior is understanding how to build
something that will *also* scale.

You won't know clean code until you have stumbled and fallen face
first into your own filth laden code - ideally with a good mix of
other people's too to really push the point home. You need to write a
lot of code, which means repetition, practice, and enthusiasm to just
build things. Once you've come to hate your own creations,
congratulations, welcome to the club, you're now ready to learn about
[clean code](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7EmboKQH8lM&list=PLmmYSbUCWJ4x1GO839azG_BBw8rkh-zOj&t=221s).

